[MUSIC]
>> Speaker 1: Question.
If I was building a large application
with multiple application modules,
should I wrote one monolithic node app, or
build multiple node apps with some sort of
messaging between the modules?
>> Scott Moss: There's a new trend for
everybody using a SOA,
a service oriented architecture.
And where we have that set up,
where everything is a service
that does just one small thing.
And we have a messaging system,
some queuing system where we
communicate between these two.
Or maybe we build some
type of HTTP interface.
So that's a thing that's trending,
and it's great, it's very flexible.
I like that approach.
But, at the same time having one,
huge monlithic node app,
if that's where your skill level is.
And that's where you know, if you're
talking about production I'd probably
go soa, service order architecture, but
if you're talking about what's gonna build
this pet thing so I can get a feel for
node, I would start there.
I wouldn't go out and
start building all of these micro
services everywhere for my to do app.
I wouldn't do that.
So, eventually, if you're talking about
production and scalability, yeah,
you should have these independent things,
and they should just do one thing and
they should do one thing very well.
They should have a very clean interface,
whether that's through some type of
queueing or messaging system, or through
HTTP, whatever protocol you choose.
But yeah, that's definitely where
the world of backend is going,
its going to that approach.
For good reasons.
>> Speaker 3: Yeah it's nice for us.
We have Wordpress on the front-end and
then our stats layer is on node and
it's just you know if stats
goes down that goes down.
You know you can just reboot stats.
>> Scott Moss: Exactly.
>> Speaker 3: And Wordpress does its thing
with caching and all that stuff.
So the website is still up.
But like okay you don't get
your progress tracking showing
up.
>> Scott Moss: Yep.
>> Speaker 3: Progress bar doesn't show
up.
>> Scott Moss: Exactly.
>> Speaker 3: It's nice to
separate things into small areas of
concern in case something goes down or
whatever, your app can fail gracefully.
>> Scott Moss: Exactly.
That's really good.
That's a really good point.
So, that's a good point.
But there's also overhead with
dealing with everything, so whatever
works with you, do it but definitely
looking at least knowing where SOA is.
And know how it works because ultimately
it came down to like where were you gonna
build for
this production thing to start up.
Probably be a service order architecture
or at least leaning towards it.
I really wouldn't want to build this used
monolithic node app that's serving J
templates with the angular application,
I think that just sounds horrible.
Because then now, you have that huge
app that's serving a web app and
then now you also just made an iPhone
app a month app with an Android app and
it's talking to the API that's
also serving static assets.
It's just a nightmare.
So just don't do that.
>> Speaker 3: Are you using Rabbit MQ?
>> Scott Moss: I've used Rabbit MQ for
the messaging system
between those services.
But lately I've been using PubNub,
which has been really cool.
RabbitMQ is really great, too.
>> Scott Moss: Anything else here?
>> Speaker 4: Asking if I missed
any questions.
>> Scott Moss: All right
>> Speaker 4: Give them
a few seconds to catch up.
>> Scott Moss: Anybody have any questions,
here?
As far as the deployment.
I kind of went there kind of fast, but,
I'm glad I got to show you,
like the gotchas.
In that deployment.
So I forgot the whole master branch stuff,
I actually forgot about that one.
So it was great that we did that.
Well, it was actually pretty
simple as far as deployment goes.
Most services aren't that simple
like Azure, kinda simple,
AWS is definitely not that simple,
but most of them are pretty easy.
Heroku is probably the easiest.
>> Speaker 1: Did you say PubNub or
Pubnode?
>> Scott Moss: PubNub.
It's a real time.
>> Speaker 1: Global data stream network?
Is that what-
>> Scott Moss: Yes.
Real time thing.
This thing right here.
When I first used PubNub
it changed my life.
I didn't even use HTTP anymore.
Now I'm going back to HTTP
making HTTP requests and
it's like I don't even
want to do it anymore.
I just want to put everything on PubNub.
And in fact I actually built an app for
a client a while ago where everything
is just PubNub, there is no HTTP.
Everything's just real time,
even the authentication.
>> Speaker 1: Do
you use Engine X for static files?
>> Scott Moss: Exact, yeah,
that's perfect.
So putting a proxy on top of your express.
So if you had an express web server
whose job was to serve static assets,
then putting a proxy in front of it,
one line Nginx,
which works very well with Node,
yeah, that'd be great.
Because now your API doesn't have to get
hit just to serve some static assets,
whereas Nginx could.
So yeah it's really great,
I think Heroku has NginX support built in,
because Heroku is just AWS
with more money on top of it.
And [LAUGH], and then AWS allows you to
host your own NginX which is pretty cool.
So yeah I do recommend using NginX For
those static assets to save the heavy
lifting for the API calls, and
not just assets itself.
>> Scott Moss: And
it's pretty easy to set that up in Nginx.
>> Speaker 1: Any recommendations for
a style guide or code quality checkers?
>> Scott Moss: Yeah.
For sure jscs, that's all you need.
This is like the bees knees.
So this one's really good.
Like, not only will it like look
deep into your code for style guide,
it will actually change the code for you.
You're like you actually meant
to indent two, let me do it for
you it'll change it for you.
It's ridiculous, the jscs,
JavaScript I don't know what does
that say, code style, there you go.
JavaScript Code Style and then what's
really cool is they have these rules, or
I'm sorry, where's the page?
They have these style guides,
these presets that are built in so
like big popular companies like Air BnB
which arguably has the best java script or
the most well-known java
script style guide out there.
You can just use their presets
built into your config.
So you can you just start writing
code like Airbnb or Google or
whoever you want or you can make your own.
JQuery, style guide,
they got all that stuff.
So this is the best one.
But it also it doesn't follow all
the rules you might get out of something
like jshint So I recommend using this in
combination with something like ES lint,
which is like JS Hint, but
just newer and it allows you to do
things with ES6 and things like that.
So a combination of
those two will be great.
And of course the style guide
I do recommend is Airbnb.
They just have a really good style guide.
They just updated it to ES 2015,
which is great.
They still have a reference for
ES 2005 back here, but
as you can see it has 22,000 stars,
so it's a pretty good style guide.
Highly recommend it.
>> Speaker 1: What
protocol is PubNub using?
Is it Web Sockets?
>> Scott Moss: It uses whatever is
the best one available on the platform.
So, because of that you could use
PubNub on a tv, a smart watch,
an internet of things.
Whatever is the best for
what it's on, it will use that.
So it'll also do like multiplexing
on a single TCP connection.
So like if you were on the latest and
greatest, it would use Web Sockets.
If you were like on a Samsung TV, it might
just do long polling It depends on what
environment it runs on,
which is really, really great.
>> Speaker 1: Are using socket diet.IO, or
some other socket library?
>> Scott Moss: Yeah,
if I input the sockets myself,
which is rare these days,
socket.IO is definitely the way to go.
It's probably the best one out there.
And there's so many wrappers for it.
So yeah, if I were doing sockets myself,
I'd use that.
It's pretty straightforward and
really well documented and
pretty much well-known.
>> Speaker 5: If
you run into a node performance issue,
how do you debug it?
Is there any specific tools you use?
>> Scott Moss: There is a node profiler
>> Scott Moss: I forgot the name of this
company.
Let me see.
PM 2, PM 2, that's what it is.
Node PM 2, how could I forget that.
So yeah, these guys are all
about production in Node.
And all types of stuff.
So they have dashboards and stuff
where you can monitor all this stuff.
And all types of open source
modules to help you with that.
And most deployment platforms you
go to offer node monitoring and
performance stuff like that.
Like Heroku not so much compared
to other stuff but if you went to
nodejitsu which is a node
only hosting service.
I've never used them but I'm guessing
they might have something like that.
But yeah these guys right here.
Keymetrics.
They're pretty much on point on that.
And they have again,
open source stuff to help you look at that
stuff.
>> Speaker 1: Can you give some
recommendations on how to
handle errors in production?
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, good question.
Man, I have so many tabs open.
>> Speaker 1: Somebody just sent
the link for a program called One Tab.
>> Scott Moss: Aw,
thanks, One Tab.
>> Speaker 3: One Tab is sweet,
yeah.
>> Scott Moss: That just have one tab?
>> Speaker 3: Well, One Tab,
it's a Chrome extension.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: And you press it,
and it like takes all your tabs and
puts it into like a list.
>> Scott Moss: Okay.
>> Speaker 3: And so you can just
like refer to it later.
>> Scott Moss: Got it, got it.
>> Speaker 3: It becomes your start page
as you can see like all those
stuff that you have in progress or
whatever.
>> Scott Moss: I'll have to look it up.
So error handling production, we kind
of did some of the good stuff already.
That setting up global middleware that
whatever we call it next we know for
sure it'll go here.
So this is like a try catch
of our server almost.
The other thing is we can
just wrap the entire file in
a try catch, no don't do that.
I was gonna see if anyone.
>> Speaker 3: [LAUGH]
>> Scott Moss: No don't do that.
Don't wrap your file in a try catch,
I've seen people do that, like just don't.
It's like I'll just wrap this
whole thing in a try catch.
No, don't do that.
There's this thing in node called man.
I don't know the name of it because
I don't think anybody even uses it.
Pretty much what we've been doing
is just like, if you try catch
this synchronous execution of
code to help prevent the errors.
If you for instance, signing a token.
You should try catch that stuff.
And then for asynchronous stuff which is
probably happening inside of a call back.
Just make sure you call it next.
That right there is gonna get you far.
Also you can tap into the events in Node.
So when Node is getting ready to
shut down, like process.on(exit).
So this like Node is about to shut down,
maybe it was for an error or something.
You can do stuff here I would say,
you should probably restart it, but
it's probably shutting down for a good
reason, so you don't want to restart it.
But, you could at least
see what's going on.
But, yeah, as long as you're just like
aware of where the errors might happen,
and preparing for those things,
you should be fine.
There are better ways, like there's this
thing called, and it's actually from PM 2.
I want to say PM 2 Forever.
I don't know the name of it.
Wait, here we go.
Well I guess PM2 or forever.
So these are other the things that
will run your node server forever.
It just won't stop it.
If something happens,
it'll just put it back up.
It's like node mod for production almost.
>> Speaker 3: Forever.
>> Scott Moss: Forever.
>> Speaker 3: We use forever.
>> Scott Moss: There, they use forever,
there you go.
>> Speaker 3: So anytime that, yeah,
an exception happens,
it would just log it to a file and
then restart the server.
>> Scott Moss: Right.
>> Speaker 3: What about Node Debugger and
that kind of stuff?
>> Scott Moss: So-
>> Speaker 3: Is that kind of-
>> Scott Moss: I don't like Node Debugger
cuz I think it's really bad.
But I think I told you guys
about these debugger on step,
on day one right, the node inspector?
So, if you're going to debug anything,
inspector.
I would just run node inspector.
You have to run it again to file, I guess.
Yeah.
So, if you run node
inspector against like.
Lets say, index.js.
Right, it'll give you this
URL that you can hit.
And it'll go to like Chrome.
Put this in Chrome.
I think I showed you guys this earlier.
And it'll load up Chrome Dev Tools.
Allow you to go through the code and
stuff.
So, but, I'm gonna cancel that logger.
That's just me, I just log everything.
That's just how it is.
Sometimes I get to the point
where I'm just like,
I'm just going to start logging stuff
to a file to go look at the file.
I just like reading through the logs
better than having to debug.
Which is weird, because on the client,
I do use the debugger, extensively.
But on node, I just hate using it.
I don't know why.